 
 
1. Work Environment Policy 
 
 Communication of Laws & regulations to all Employees – 
  
 The company has focused on the following work environment related concerns including 
 ergonomics towards better productivity by providing a good working environment. Enough 
 care has been taken from the human resources in interpreting and administering the laws 
 and regulations since they can have serious legal implications. 
   
 Operational Considerations 
  Infrastructure- Infrastructure and the interior design in the workplace are provided according 
  to the work requirement of each department. 
  Hygiene, Housekeeping and Lighting - The workplace is kept hygienic and appropriate lighting 
  is provided. The Administration Department ensures housekeeping of the entire VENSAI  
  TECHNOLOGIES and also proper upkeep of the offices. 
  
 Housekeeping includes: 
 - Office maintenance. 
 - Maintenance of administration assets of the company. 
 - Attending to complaints on general matters from all departments. 
 - Provision of refreshments. 
 - Cleaning of office premises. 
 - Pest control measures. 
 - Helping in organizing official get-together and meetings. 
  
 Network & infrastructure  
 To provide standards for quality and efficiency to all the systems with respect to networking and 
 information security 
  
 Work Environment Infrastructure and Facilities at Work 
  
 Operational Considerations 
 Workstation – All the employees will be provided with workstations, the joining of the 
 new hire will be informed to the Networking Team and a request for new system will be 
 raised by the HR team. A special approval is required by Unit Head in case of a laptop 
 request. 
   
 Each workstation is designed to provide optimum space utilization. Further, while 
 designing the workstation, focus is given on the productivity of the employees. 
 
  - Minimum workspace of 20 square feet is provided to all  
  employees. All minimum requirements like PC, table/worktable, 
  drawers and pin-up boards are provided. 
  - The minimum lead-time for a workstation allocation is one day (Refer Annexure 2) 
  - For project specific requirement common workstation/equipment are provided. 
 
 
 
 Note: Incase of lost/crash/breakage of the laptop, the total cost of laptop will be 
 recovered from the employee. In addition to that, cost towards the loss of data or 
 information (which will be assessed on a case by case basis) will also be recovered 
 from the employee. 
  
 Cabins - Each cabin is designed with all the fundamental necessities considering space 
 and ergonomics depending on the employee’s grade. A minimum area of [9ft width * 7ft 
 length] cabin with all the requisite facilities is provided. 
 
 Cabins are provided for employees in Grade E and above  
 
 Board Room /Conference Room - In order to facilitate efficient meetings and 
 discussions, conference room of minimum 200 square feet area is provided, with due 
 consideration given to ergonomics, space, lighting and ventilation. Each conference 
 room is provided with a telephone; white board, conference tables and chairs. 
 Projector, LCD facilities are provided on a need basis. 
  
 Aisles/Passages - Well-lit aisles/ passages are provided in the office to enable free 
 movement of people and material. 
  
 Stationery - In order to facilitate efficient working environment, necessary quality 
 stationery is provided to all the employees. All the need based stationery required by 
 any department is provided by Administration Department namely, pen, paper, 
 pencil,  stapler, files, markers, pins, etc. 
 
 The indents are raised collectively by the Administration Department to the Finance 
 Department to make the supply. The minimum lead-time for procurement of 
 stationery items is 24 hours 
 
 Telephone & Home Internet - In order to facilitate efficient and speedy communication, 
 telephones are provided with intercom, STD and ISD facilities depending on the need 
 and nature of duties. Preventive/breakdown maintenance of the equipment shall be 
 carried  out as per the terms & conditions. The Unit Head approves the request for 
 home internet,  ISD connections and new mobile connections. (Applicable only for 
 employees operating from India) 
 
 The minimum lead-time for a Mobile and Telephone connection is one week 
 
 Process for Mobile Connection 
 - HR Head would analyze if an employee joining in the specified grades would qualify for 
 this policy based on the eligibility and business requirement (For eligibility of Telephone 
 and Mobile Phones). However, based on the business requirement, employees below the 
 "Grade E" will also be extended with this facility upon required approvals. (Usage limit for 
 such connections would be Rs. 500/-). If an employee eligible through this policy and is 
 deputed out of his/her work location, would be provide with roaming facility. 
 
 
 
 - Unit Head approves that an employee be set-up on the mobile facility 
 - Admin team/Location Head would take care of the corporate mobile connection issuance to 
 the employee and updating the Finance & HR team and also ensures that the connection is 
 cancelled if an employee exits the company. 
 - Company would provide only the mobile connection, which would be on the company name. 
 Employee needs to arrange for the mobile instrument required. 
 
 Usage and Repayment Process 
 - Employees who are eligible for this facility should ensure that calls made are primarily related 
 with business only. 
 - Employees under this facility will receive Original Bill of their phone usage detail from the 
 Admin Department/Location Head and once the bill is received, each employee is expected to 
 review it to mark the personal calls and the bill amount towards it. The employee would sign on 
 the bill after verification to submit it to Accounts for payment. The bill amount on personal calls 
 would be deducted from the employees’ salary and the remaining amount which is incurred on 
 official and business calls would be paid by the company. 
 - Employee should also check for the accuracy of the details mentioned in his bill and if any 
 discrepancies are found, that has to be reported to the Administrative Manager/Location Head. 
 - In case of loss of the SIM card, an amount of Rs. 1000/- will be charged to the employee for 
 replacement of the SIM 
 - At the time of separation, the employee should return the SIM card to the Admin 
 Manager/Location Head. 
 
 Toilets - At least one toilet/washroom is provided for men and women in the floor. Hygiene 
 and cleanliness is maintained by the Administration Department/Location Head. The office 
 maintenance is outsourced to a specialized agency. All the necessary requirements like soap, 
 water, hand wash, mirror, hand dryers, tissue papers, room fresheners and garbage bin are 
 provided. 
 
 A checklist containing standards of hygiene and cleanliness is displayed and updated hourly. 
 This checklist is affixed behind the doors of the toilets. 
 
 Pantry Service - Pantry service consisting of tea, coffee and other beverages is outsourced. 
 Agency deputes staff as per VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES workplace timings to cater to the 
 employees. For all Meetings/Training/Conference/Seminars, tea, coffee, and other beverages 
 are supplied with due hospitality. 
 
 Access Control - Administration Department/Location Head provides ID cards, Access Card, 
 Biometric identity as per the information from HR Department. Systems Department 
 provides login and passwords for PC/Laptop. 
 
 The minimum lead-time to get: 
• The Temporary ID card is 1 Day. 
• The permanent ID card is 2 weeks. 
• PC/Laptop, Login and password is one day 
 
 
 
 Photocopying - The photocopier is done in-house. Preventive/breakdown maintenance of 
 equipments is carried out as per the terms of contract by Network & Infrastructure 
 Department. 
 
 Chairs - Ergonomically designed chairs that enhance efficiency are provided to all 
 employees. Space constraints and employee comfort are taken into account. 
 Office Key Management - Office key management of all main doors is handled by 
 Administration Department/Location Head & Security through manual locking system. The
 office keys are kept in key boxes with identification number. While opening the doors, Security 
 hands over the key to the in-charge after entering the details in the key register. 
 Keys pertaining to sensitive areas like HR room, legal documents room, cash chest/box, etc., 
 are maintained by the concerned department and shall not be kept with the Security. 
 
 Air-Conditioner - To create a conducive work environment, the company provides 
 central  AC to all the employees 
 All the AC plants and equipment are maintained by the company and are entered into by 
 way of Service Level Agreement (SLA). Preventive/breakdown maintenance of equipments is 
 carried  out as per the terms. 
 
 Visitor Management - Visitor details are entered in the visitors’ register, which is maintained 
 by the Security. The visitor is then guided to the Reception where the receptionist with due 
 hospitality connects him/her to the contact person. The visitor is directed, if required, to the 
 meeting room. The minimum wait time is 15 Minutes. 
 
 Security Management - Security management system is designed to safeguard the interests 
 of the company. Office key maintenance, overall protection of office assets, etc., are handled 
 by Security. To help in performing their responsibilities effectively and efficiently, security 
 personnel are trained in fire fighting and other emergency operations. 
 
 New Employee - Every new employee is provided with PC, Email Id, & Workstation. 
 Telephone & Cabin is provided based on the Job Responsibility level. Stationery, Access Cards, 
 and ID cards are provided to all irrespective of their grades. 
 
 Facilities are provided to the employees according to their Job Responsibility level  
 
 Company Property 
 The Company wishes to provide the necessary tools to complete the employees’ job efficiently 
 and effectively. Simultaneously, the Company must maintain control of costs. Employees are 
 expected to responsibly utilize Company resources including phones and supplies. Desk, filing 
 cabinets, computers, computer files, e-mail and voice-mail are the property of VENSAI 
 TECHNOLOGIES Ltd. and are intended for business use only. The Company reserves the right to 
 assess those items at any time for legitimate business purposes. 
 The employees are expected to sign a form to accept responsibility and control of any 
 equipment in your possession, such as laptops, mobiles, VOIP phones etc. that is removed 
 from Company premises in the normal course of business. 
 
 
 
 Recycling 
 The Company encourages recycling of all possible materials. 
 
 Smoking 
 Smoking is not allowed in the office premises. 
 
 
 
 Parking 
 Parking is available for employee vehicles in designated areas within and around the building, 
 if space permits. The Company is not responsible for any loss or damage to employee vehicles 
 or while parked on or off Company property. 
 
 Disciplinary Actions 
 VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES Ltd. is committed to provide a safe work environment to all 
 employees. If the code of safe practices is not followed, a disciplinary action will be taken 
 against the employee. 
 
 Limited usage of paper 
 VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES Ltd. maintains the records in softy copies such as workbooks, excel 
 sheets.  We limited the usage of paper and the paper is used only for important documents 
 need to be sent for proposals etc. 
 
 a. Cleanliness - The workplace is kept clean and free from dirt. In particular: 
• Accumulated dust is removed daily by sweeping and by other methods, from 
staircases and passages, and disposed off 
• The floor of every workroom is cleaned at least once in every week by 
mopping, using disinfectant where necessary, and other cleaning methods 
 
 b. Overcrowding - It is ensured that the workplace is not overcrowded.  
 The workplace is well maintained to avoid any disturbance while performing the work. 
 
 c. Lighting - 
 - Every workplace is provided with necessary lighting - natural, artificial, and/or both. 
 - In every workplace windows are kept clean on both the inner and outer surfaces. 
 - Effective provision is made for the prevention of glare on the monitor, either directly from 
 a source of light or by reflection from a smooth or polished surface. 
 
 d. Drinking Water - Drinking water facility is provided at the workplace, through 
 dispensers and disposable glasses. 
 
 e. Noise Levels - Noise level at the work place caused by the employees or from equipments 
 like telephone, system, mobile phone, photocopying machine, etc., is minimized so that it 
 does not cause any in-convenience to other employees. 
 
 
 
 f. First Aid and Medicine - First aid kit and basic medicines are provided at reception/security 
 desks to attend to emergencies. All employees are notified about the available first aid facilities. 
 
 g. Ambulance Service - The name and phone numbers of hospitals are available with 
 Security/Reception/Administration/HR department and the same is incorporated in the 
 employee handbook. 
 
 h. Pantry - Lunchroom is well lit, ventilated and maintained in a cool and clean condition 
 with provision for drinking water, tea, coffee, etc. Administration ensures that the 
 contractor supplies good quality of food and service to all the employees. 
 
 i. Crockery - Cutlery, tables, and chairs are maintained in clean and hygienic manner. To avoid 
 overcrowding at the lunchroom, there is a flexible time band of 90 minutes lunch break for all 
 the employees, based on their shift timings. It is ensured by the administration team that all 
 eatables are sourced from outside are cooked in the most hygienic conditions. Further, 
 cooked  items are stored in airtight containers. 
 
 j. Pest Management - Pest control system is implemented in offices, record rooms, & other 
 premises to ensure hygiene, safety, and protection of records and goods. 
 The pest control activity is carried out monthly twice for workstation with prior intimation 
 sent to the concerned department to enable them to plan their work schedules without any 
 disturbance. 
 The Administration Department monitors this maintenance report periodically. 
 
 k. Waste Disposal - Garbage is collected from each workplace by the housekeeping 
 deputies and accumulated centrally at the basement of each building for disposal, 
 everyday. 
 
2. Working Hours 
 
 The purpose is to maintain regular working hours for productivity. 
 A regular full-time employee is scheduled to work a minimum duration of 45 – 60 hours per 
 week and a min of 6 hours per day. The same is tracked thru the Bio Metrics everyday by 
 taking the first login and the last logout for that day. Bio Metric Access & temporary ID card to 
 employees will be provided on the first day of their joining VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES Ltd. 
 Employees starting work between 2:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. are employees of the evening 
 shift. Those starting after 7:00 p.m. but before 4:00 a.m. are night shift employees. 
 
 Timely Allocation of the resources to accomplish VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES business 
 processes 
 
 a) Adequate space is provided for performing assigned work. It includes 
  - Individual workspaces. 
  - Public spaces, such as Board room, and meeting spaces and 
  - Specialized workspaces, such as training areas. 
 
 
 
 b) Adequate physical and technical resources are provided for performing assigned 
 work. Examples of physical resources include: 
  - Office furniture and equipment. 
  - Lighting. 
  - Computers and workstations. 
  - Application software (e.g., editors, word processing and document production   
     tools, spreadsheets, and project management tools). 
  - Communication technologies, such as telephones, fax, and electronic mail. 
  - Printing and reproduction equipment, such as high-resolution printers, copiers, 
  - Training equipments. (Eg: Projectors) 
 
 c) Specialized resources for performing a specific type of work in the organization are
 available. In VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES basic computational technology resources includes: 
  - Computers, workstations, and/or PCs. 
  - Networks (LANs) 
  - Project management tools. 
  - Electronic communications. 
 
 d) Adequate staff support is provided for performing assigned work. 
 
 e) Space, facilities, and staff resource needs are planned and provided on a periodic (e.g., 
 annual) and event-driven (e.g., project initiation) basis. 
 
 
 Individual workspaces provide an adequate personal environment for performing 
 assigned work responsibilities. 
 
 It includes 
• Protected private space where personal effects, work tools, and products can be 
secured and stored as necessary. 
• Adequate desktop space for the tools that are used in performing tasks and the 
work products that are being produced. 
• Adequate illumination for performing work. 
• Sufficient isolation and noise protection to support the level of concentration 
needed to perform individual work. 
• Sufficient space to perform work activities alone or with a number of colleagues, 
as appropriate. 
 
 
 Periodic improvements are made to the work environment that increases effectiveness in 
 performing work. 
 
 The work environment is periodically analyzed to identify changes or resources that 
 could improve work performance. 
  a. Resources that would improve the effectiveness of the work environment are  
  prioritized.  
 
 
  b. Within prudent limits, such as available budget, resources with high priorities  
  are made available. 
  c. Necessary support or training to use the resources deployed is made available. 
 
 Environmental factors that degrade or endanger the health of the workforce are 
 identified and corrected. 
 
 In VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES any of the environmental factors that minimize the effectiveness 
 of the workforce are identified & corrected. 
 
 Examples of environmental factors that degrade or endanger the health of the 
 workforce include: 
  – Unsafe working conditions, 
  – Improper posture or ergonomics, 
  – Exposure to unhealthy substances, 
  – Poor air or water quality, or 
  – Excessive stress. 
 
 Physical factors that degrade the effectiveness of the work environment are identified and 
 corrected. 
 
 In VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES any of the physical factors that minimize the effectiveness of the 
 workforce are identified & corrected. 
 
 Examples of physical factors that degrade the effectiveness of the work environment include: 
  – Unsafe working conditions; 
  – Inadequate security; 
  – Inadequate office or meeting space; 
  – Poor lighting; 
  – Inadequate heating, ventilation, and cooling; 
  – Unpleasant odors; 
  – Vibration; 
  – Excessive noise; or 
  – Crowding. 
 
 Sources of frequent interruption that degrade the effectiveness of the work 
 environment are identified and minimized. 
 
 Examples of time-related distractions include: 
  – Telephone interruptions, 
  – Excessive meetings, 
  – Poorly organized work, 
  – Unnecessary or excessive administrative tasks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Privacy Policy 
  
 The purpose is to maintain privacy of office property. 
 The Company has and will continue to develop procedures covering physical access control to 
 ensure privacy of communications, maintenance of the security of the Company communication 
 equipment, and safeguard Company assets from theft, misuse and destruction. You are 
 personally responsible for complying with the level of access control that has been implemented 
 in the facility where you work on a permanent or temporary basis. You must not defeat or cause 
 to be defeated the purpose for which the access control was implemented. For more details 
 please contact the Company’s Network and Systems Security Department. 
 
4. Employee Information Policy 
 
 The purpose is to provide relevant information to employees to keep track of organization 
 policies and procedures 
  
 Office Cleanliness– 
 - All means of entries unblocked, well lighted and unlocked during work hours. 
 - No storage of excess amount of combustibles (paper) in your work area. 
 - Turn off coffee makers/ electrical kettles/ vending machines/ hand-dryers etc when not in use. 
 - Book and storage shelves anchored. 
 - Aisles and hallways to be kept clear at all times. 
 - Place paper and trash in wastepaper baskets. 
 - Clean up of the spills immediately, so others do not slip. 
 - No storage of unnecessary materials in storerooms and closets. 
 - Notify administration & facilities when unsafe conditions exist, such as broken glass, loose 
 carpeting, etc. 
 
  Walkways 
 - Running through the building is dangerous and no matter how late you are, PLEASE WALK 
 - Do not obstruct view when carrying materials. 
 - Never leave items in the walkways that could be stumbled over. 
 
  Workstation Arrangement 
 - Muscle strains and fatigue are familiar complaints of those who primarily sit to do their work. 
 Developing good habits and using your body correctly are critical in making you more healthy 
 and productive. 
 
  General Notes 
 - Eight hours of sitting puts more strain on back than 8 hours of lifting. 
 - Reaching overhead, looking continuously to one side creates strain on the neck. 
 - Reaching below knee level or lifting an object that is more than 12 inches away from body 
 strains the lower back. 
 - Balance is the key. 
  
 
 
 
 Seating positions: 
 Sit Straight: Posture is critical. Adjust the height and recline of your chair to support a 
 comfortable posture. 
 Adjust the chair: Chair height should be such that knees and hips are at right angles and feet are 
 flat on the floor. 
 Keep wrists neutral: Your wrists should not have greater flexion than 5 degrees in any direction. 
 If you are in the correct position, you will feel your arm muscles work rather than the tendons of 
 your hand or wrist. 
 Use both hands: When lifting binders or large files, secure them with both hands to avoid 
 shoulder strains. 
 Grip with whole hand: Using the whole hand prevents injury to the tendons, fingers, and wrists. 
 Fingers are not meant to be hooks. 
 Hang elbows at side: Your work should be positioned so that upper arms hang vertical and 
 elbows are at a 90-degree angle. 
 Rest feet: Feet should rest comfortably on the floor. If after lowering your work surface and 
 adjusting your chair to proper height, your feet do not rest comfortably, ask for a footrest. 
 Position your work closely and directly in front of you: By positioning your work close and in 
 from of you, you maintain body balance and avoid fatigue and strain to your lower back and 
 neck. 
 
 Computers Posture 
 Incorrect Posture and Habit while working on Computers have been associated with discomfort 
 such as muscle tension, stiffness, fatigue and eyestrain. You can reduce these discomforts by 
 using the above suggestions as well as the following: 
  - Adjust sitting position frequently 
  - Stretch frequently. 
   - Check keyboard position so that your forearm, wrist and the surface of the keyboard 
  are on the same plane. 
  - Rest eyes periodically. 
  - Check lighting. 
  
 Accident Cases 
 Report all the accidents, injuries and illness as soon as possible either to your superior or HR 
 
 Safe Work-area practices 
 - Work areas should be kept clear of debris, floor storage and electrical cords 
 - Adequate aisle space shall be maintained 
 - Employees must exercise caution when moving about the office 
 - Filing cabinets should be opened only one drawer at a time and close when work is finished 
 - You should exercise care closing drawers to avoid pinching your or another employees’ 
 fingers.  
 - You should use proper lifting and reaching techniques when carrying loads and avoid 
 overexertion and strain. 
 - You shall seek eye and vision care and use rest periods to relax eyes and body. 
  
 
 
 
 Employee Safety Procedures 
 a) Fires 
  - In the event of a fire, the alarm will ring. 
  - Upon hearing the alarm, stop what you are doing and leave the premises taking the 
  emergency exit 
  - Feel any closed doors before you open them. If a door is hot, do not open it. The fire 
  may be  right behind the door. 
  - If smoke is in the building, stay as low to the ground as possible, and cover your 
  mouth with a cloth. 
  - You should remain outside until the signal to return to the building is given. 
  - Remember to keep the driveway and parking lot as clear as possible to ensure easy 
  access for fire and medical vehicles. 
  If you see a fire begin 
  - Contact your Admin and/or security and inform HR as quickly as possible. 
  - Alert everyone in the area that a fire has started. 
  - If you feel comfortable and the fire is small, you may/can try to extinguish the fire 
  yourself. If you do not feel comfortable trying to extinguish the fire, proceed out the 
  emergency exit. 
  Employee Fire Prevention Actions 
  The best way to handle a fire emergency is to prevent one from occurring; the  
  following steps  should be taken by all employees in order to be sure our building is 
  safe from unnecessary dangers. 
  
 b) Emergency Exits 
  - Keep aisles, exits and exit signs clear and unobstructed. Report burned out bulbs for 
  exit signs to the admin/facilities coordinator. 
  - Keep automatic fire doors clear of obstructions. Do not prop fire doors open. 
  
 c) Basic Electrical Safety 
  - Get replaced or repaired the damaged electrical cords immediately. The Company 
  will be happy to purchase new cords for use in the offices. 
  - Do not use extension cords in place of permanent wiring. If you need additional 
  power,  contact the facilities coordinator. 
  - Do not overload electrical outlets with “cube taps” or other adapters. A safer  
  alternative would be a power strip that has a built-in circuit breaker. 
  - Protect cables, electrical cords and power trips from damage caused by foot traffic, 
  door closings or improper storage. 
  - Maintain a minimum of 36” clearance around electrical panels. 
  Additional Fire Safety Practices 
  Keep combustible storage to a minimum. 
  Observe good housekeeping practice. Do not allow excess clutter to accumulate. 
  Do not smoke in the building or around combustible materials. 
  Use tools and equipment only as designed. Do not attempt unsafe or unapproved 
  usage of or modifications to equipment. 
 
 
  Use and store chemicals in accordance with safe work practice. Ensure all chemical 
  containers are properly labeled and/or identified. 
  Be Prepared 
  You are encouraged to participate in on-going safety training and become familiar with 
  potential hazards in the workplace and appropriate preventive/protective measures. 
  Be familiar with emergency procedures, evacuation routes and exits. Participate in 
  periodic building evacuation drills. 
  Review thoroughly Standard Operating Procedures before working with chemicals or 
  unfamiliar pieces of equipment. 
  
 d) Earthquakes 
  - In the event of an earthquake, duck or drop to floor. 
  - Take cover under a sturdy desk, table or other furniture. 
  - If that is not possible, seek cover against an interior wall and protect your head and 
  neck with your arms. 
  - Avoid danger spots near windows, hanging objects, mirrors or tall furniture. 
  - If you take cover under a sturdy piece of furniture, hold onto it and be prepared to 
  move with it. 
  - Hold the position until the ground stops shaking and it is safe to move. If you are 
  outdoors, get into an open area away from trees, buildings, walls and power lines. 
 
 e) Bomb Threats 
 If you receive a telephoned bomb threat 
  Listen carefully. Obtain and write down as much information as possible especially 
  where the bomb is supposed to be located and when it’s set to go off. 
  Try to get the caller’s name. If not possible, note the apparent gender of the caller and 
  any accent of vocal characteristics. 
  Do not panic, report immediately. 
 If you discover or suspect a bomb 
  Do not panic. Don’t touch it! 
  Alert everyone in the area to leave as quickly as possible, without any panic. Alert 
  admin/security and ask him to call the bomb disposal squad. 
  
5. Discrimination and Harassment/Respectful Workplace Policy 
 
 The Company is committed to providing a work environment free of unlawful harassment. 
 Company policy prohibits sexual harassment and harassment based on pregnancy, childbirth 
 or related medical conditions, race, religious creed, color, national origin or ancestry, physical 
 or mental disability, medical condition, marital status, age, sexual orientation, or any other 
 basis protected by local law or ordinance or regulation. All such harassment is unlawful. The 
 Company does not accept harassment in any form and it applies to all persons involved in the 
 operation of the Company and prohibits unlawful harassment by any employee of the 
 Company towards other VENSAI employees including supervisors, outside vendors, clients and 
 customers. It also prohibits unlawful harassment based on the perception that anyone has any 
 of those characteristics, or is associated with a person who has or is perceived as having any of 
 those characteristics. 
 
 
 If you believe that you have been unlawfully harassed, submit a complaint to your Manager or 
 HR Department. In addition, if you believe you have been sexually harassed, you can submit a 
 complaint to the HR department or Management of the Company. 
 
 If you have any questions relating to what constitutes discrimination or harassment, or if you 
 have any other questions or concerns pertaining to discrimination or harassment, contact the 
 Human Resources Department. 
 
6. Safety & Security Policy 
 
 To standardize and maintain safety in the organization 
 The welfare of our employees as well as the security of the facility requires that every 
 individual be aware of potential security risk. The employees are asked to immediately notify 
 their supervisor when known and/ or unknown persons are acting in a suspicious manner, in or 
 around  the facilities, or when keys or security passes are lost or misplaced. 
 
 Every employee is responsible for the safety of himself/herself as well as others in the 
 workplace. To achieve the goal of maintaining a safe workplace, everyone must be safety 
 conscious at all times. Maintaining a safe work environment is a continuous endeavor, 
 requiring the cooperation of all employees. 
  
 a. Lifts 
 - Certified lifts of good quality and adequate strength are put up in the office building 
 wherever required. The Administration Department examines them through the 
 building contractor. 
 
 b. Flooring and Staircases 
 - The floors, steps, stairs, passages, and gangways at the workplace are of good quality 
 construction, properly maintained. They are kept free from obstructions and substances 
 those likely to cause inconvenience to people. 
 
 
 c. Fire Protection 
 • In the workplace, measures are taken to prevent outbreak of fire and its spread, both 
 internally and externally. This is done by providing and maintaining: 
  - Safe means of escape for all persons in the event of a fire 
  - The necessary equipment and facilities for extinguishing fire 
 • Effective measures are taken to ensure that in every workplace all the employees are familiar 
 with the means of escape in case of a fire and are adequately trained in the procedure to be 
 followed. 
  
 d. Maintenance of Buildings 
 The maintenance of building in terms of painting and other repairs are carried on 
 contract basis. 
 The contractor checks the building and performs the necessary repairs once in every 
 six months. Painting of building is done once in 3 years. 
 
 
 The Administration & Facilities Department is responsible for the day-to-day maintenance 
 of building like mopping, sweeping, dusting, etc. 
 
 *Emergencies 
 In an event of emergency situations, alert the administration & HR departments. The floor plan 
 with directions to the emergency exit is detailed below. 
 
 
 *First Aid/Medical Attention 
 In case of any injury, Admin & HR is contacted. There are several hospitals and medical clinics 
 near the office premises. In the event of a wide scale emergency, such as an earthquake, work 
 with Admin and HR to call for medical help. 
 
 
7. Alcohol and Drug Abuse Policy 
 
  To meet our responsibilities to employees, customers and investors, the Company must 
 maintain a healthy and productive work environment. Misusing controlled substances, or 
 selling, manufacturing, distributing, possessing, using or being under the influence of illegal 
 drugs and alcohol on the job is absolutely prohibited. 
 
  
8. Use of Company Equipment Policy 
 
 The Purpose is to provide standards for quality and efficiency to all the systems with respect to 
 networking and information security. 
 
 Standards 
 Hardware - The organization is equipped with latest computers with networking and 
 information security 
 i. PC’s and Laptops have at least Pentium III processor that includes: 
  - 4 GB RAM 
  - 500 GB Hard disk 
  - USB port 
  - CD ROM Drive 
 ii. Tele-conferencing is done through Polycom facility provided at Conference 
 rooms   
 iii. Printer access is provided to the eligible employees. 
 iv. Fax & Scanner is provided on need basis. 
 
 Operating System - Operating systems used is Windows 7/8 across all locations 
 
 Anti-Virus - The anti-virus used is Microsoft Essential. The Firewall used at various locations is 
 CISCO ASA 5512 
 
 
 
 MS Office and Software Tools - 
 - All the systems have MS-Office & Outlook, Acrobat and WinZip. 
 - Microsoft Visio and MS-Project are provided to employees upon their respective Reporting 
 Manager’s approval. 
 - SQL and Tally are used in different departments according to their need. 
  
 Browser and E-mails - Dedicated high-bandwidth Internet connectivity of 2MBPS is provided 
 across all locations for easy and continuous access to the stakeholders. Browser used is 
 Internet Explorer and E-mail facility provided is Microsoft Outlook. All employees are given 
 individual mail ids & all departments are provided with Group mail ids. This facilitates better 
 communication across functions/departments. The request to include an individual is 
 informed by HR to Network & Infrastructure Department. 
 
 Lead-time for Login, password and email id creations is one day. 
  
 Facilities Management - Facilities management is a part of Administration Department/Location 
 Head and ensures that the facilities mentioned in the policy of work environment in taken care. 
 Minimum Timeline 
 Any request/query can be sent to sai.chamana@vensaiinc.com. For any query/help related to 
 systems, system administrator is the first point of contact. System administrator maintains 
 Service Register and updates on the status of the queries raised. 
 
 
9. Overtime  
  
 General  
 Generally, VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES authority is not encouraging employees to perform overtime 
 work in  normal condition. But there are always some unpredictable matters happened to 
 interrupt our business operation such as deliveries or unexpected client expectations. 
 Therefore, it is a major responsibility of managers throughout the Company to eliminate 
 overtime to the extent possible or when it becomes necessary in the interests of our business, 
 to hold it to a minimum. 
  
 Compensatory Time  
 At the discretion of their managers, some employees who work on a 5-day workweek and work 
 at least 8 hours on a non-regular workday may be granted the option of a day off with pay in lieu 
 of overtime pay. The day must be taken during the pay period in which overtime occurs. This 
 option also applies to holiday work; that is, eligible employees may receive regular 
 compensation for the holiday and an additional day off in the same pay period in lieu of 
 overtime pay. 
 In addition to regular pay for holidays, non-exempt employees are compensated at time and 
 one-half, with a minimum of three hours' pay, when they work on a legal holiday regularly 
 observed by the Company, or on any day which is not part of their regular workweek. 
  
 
 
 Procedure  
 Overtime work must be approved by Reporting Department Manager. HR Department is 
 responsible for checking the overtime records showed on the Time Sheets/Time Records. 
 
10. Workplace Violence Policy 
  
 Discipline 
 VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES has a strategy that recognizes the value of its people. Part of this 
 strategy is the fair treatment of all employees. This requires a minimum standard of conduct and 
 performance be agreed, set and communicated with all employees. If employees do not  meet 
 this standard, appropriate corrective action, such as training, should be undertaken. Discipline 
 should only be engaged with an employee on a performance issue if all other corrective action 
 has failed to achieve the desired result. 
 Where an employee has deliberately breached a Company policy or procedure, or engaged in 
 misconduct, disciplinary procedures should be initiated. 
 Employees should be treated fairly and the proper procedures should be followed. 
 Employees must be made aware of their responsibilities, counseled and given the opportunity 
 to reach the standards expected of them and the chance to defend them before action is taken. 
 The expected standard must be clearly defined and the measurement criteria understood. A 
 reasonable date for achievement of standards must be agreed. This should be shown as a 
 minimum time, e.g. within one month. 
 
 
 Misconduct 
 Immediate Head or Manager is expected to investigate misconduct and proceed through the 
 following steps: - A verbal warning should be given to an employee for minor misconduct. A record of the 
warning must be kept by the manager and should be signed by the employee. The employee 
must be given the opportunity to respond. - If the unacceptable behavior continues, a written warning will be issued, and signed by the 
employee as being received and understood. The employee must be given the opportunity 
to respond. - A second written warning should be given to an employee if she/her requires further 
discipline for the same or a related issue, and also signed by the employee as being received 
and understood. The employee must be given the opportunity to respond. - Employees who have been disciplined three times are subject to dismissal. - Details of disciplinary actions should be recorded on the employee’s personnel file and 
removed after one (1) calendar year if further disciplinary action is not required. 
 Standards of Behavior 
 VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES regards its employees as its most valuable resources and thereby 
 reposes a high level of trust and confidence in them. It therefore encourages its staff to 
 reciprocate such trust and confidence with work performance and conduct consistent with the 
 following general principles: 
A. Honesty 
 
 
B. Judicious use or availment of Company resources, facilities and benefits within the limits 
established by policy or business practice. 
C. Accurate accounting of Company funds and property placed in his/her charge 
D. Prompt and truthful reporting of matters that affect or could affect the Company as a whole 
E. Fidelity in the custody of confidential information which he/she acquires knowledge of 
F. Obedience to company rules and regulations, e.g. safety, sanitation and hygiene 
G. Respect for his/her Immediate Superiors and Co-employees. 
H. Cooperation and team spirit 
I. Prudence in his/her dealings with Company’s publics 
J. Concern for the environment and the society in general 
K. Punctuality 
L. Orderliness in the work and workplace 
M. Pride in working with the organization 
N. A deep sense of responsibility to undertake his/her job effectively and expeditiously 
O. Propagation of the Company’s products and services 
 
11. Confidentiality Policy 
 
 With respect to confidential information concerning the Company, other employees, the 
 Company's vendors and contractual partners, and/or its customers/clients, such information 
 should be safeguarded. An appropriate manager will grant the necessary access if an employee 
 needs such information to perform his or her duties. No other access is permitted. Any release, 
 duplication, distribution, transmittal, disclosure, or discussion ("release") of such information 
 that is not required by law or by the duties of the employees involved is strictly prohibited. 
  
 Unauthorized access to, and unauthorized release of, confidential information will violate this 
 policy and may result in appropriate disciplinary action against the employee(s) involved, up to 
 and potentially including termination of employment, depending upon the severity and/or 
 repeat nature of the offense. 
 
12. Performance Management Policy 
 
       Performance appraisals will be conducted as follows:- 
     • VENSAI Performance Appraisal is done once in an Year. 
 
  VENSAI MANAGEMENT has a very good Performance Appraisal system by incorporating various 
 Behavior traits. which are relevant to job requirements and organization needs. Employee’s 
 strengths and weaknesses are evaluated and apprised to them for further improvement. 
 Training needs is also identified through’ performance appraisals.  Attendance and Punctuality 
 play a vital role in determining other performance ratings such as communication skill, 
 leadership skill, motivational skill, Analytical skill, job knowledge. Employees also feel free to 
 discuss about their weaknesses with their Managers and HR Manager.   
 
 
 
 An appraisal is a meeting / discussion between employee and the manager to discuss 
 employees’ performance in order to plan together employee’s future. It gives you a chance to 
 think about how an employee has performed since the last appraisal or since joining the 
 organization and to agree future performance objectives.  Before the appraisal meeting, 
 employee and his/her Manager should agree a suitable time and date for appraisal. Listed in 
 appraisal forms would be the skills that are important in an employee’s job. Further to the rating 
 the HR Department will receive the forms and prepare the final data of rating status and track 
 the same. The consolidated data is presented to the Top management for further decision 
 regarding conversion of performance points into salary increment, promotion or any other such 
 decisions. 
 
13. Organization Environment Policy: 
 
 VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES maintains all environment friendly .Vensai does very less paper usage. 
 We maintain everything in electronic files. We collect the invoices from our customers through 
 email to avoid paper usage. 
 
14. Working Conditions: 
 
 VENSAI TECHNOLOGIES take care of all employees equally and their scheduled shifts, work 
 place, working hours, Break hours, Remuneration and give healthy Environment so that the 
 employees can perform better and stress free work.  
 
15. Benefits and Eligibility Policy: 
 
 The governing theme in our organization is the well being of employees. The benefits we offer 
 them are on par with the best available. Our Compensation package is among the best in the 
 industry and it is aimed at retaining existing talent. A reward for each position is based on 
 performance, potential, criticality and market value.   
 
 We recognize hard work of employees and introduce awards in every step of success, we have 
 recreation activities for the employees in the office for refreshing. 
  
 We offer our employees health insurance, ESI & addition to a host of deferred benefits like 
 provident fund, gratuity and pension plan. 
 
  
 
Vensai Technologies (India) Pvt Ltd 
F.No.102, Waltair Heights, Siripuram, Visakhapatnam – 03. AP, INDIA.  
Email: info@vensaiinc.com, Phone +91-89-3244229, www.vensaiinc.com 
 
 
 
Do’s  & Don’t for all the development teams 
 
 
 
1 A Minimum of 40 hours per week. Every member is only expected to work for 40 hours a week. Members were 
entitled to use leaves in case they have available leaves any time. Leaves when used beyond the available will 
result in loss of pay. 
 
2 All the members are expected to be online and be available to respond to your colleagues and team mates 
during the work hours and agreed timings in case of pre-planned meetings outside of working hours. 
 
3 All the members are expected to be on time for the scheduled meetings and have to ensure the quality of the 
calls.(Noise free and on a better internet bandwidth). 
 
4 All the members are expected to keep the KANBAN board up to date to reflect what they were presently doing on 
a given day and keep updating the task status and have appropriate comments on a daily basis to enable others 
to understand exact status any time. 
 
5 Every member is expected to submit timesheets on v-Track before end of Friday or last working day of the week. 
 
6 Every member is expected submit client specific timesheets before end of Friday every week or latest by Monday 
first hour without fail. 
 
7 Every member is expected to inform about their non-availability to the client as well as the fellow team members 
via an email to avoid any surprises well in advance. ( as soon as candidate realizes about the need for non
availability) 
 
8 Every member is expected to use required assertiveness in their communication at work. 
 
Example: 
No delay or On time. 
 
(or) 
 
There is a delay. I will complete a given task by tomorrow 9:00 AM EST. 
The task will not be completed as planned, and it will require 16 more hours to complete. 
There is a pre-requisite which is not complete and hence this task will not be complete until next week. 
 
Note: Please do not leave any room for ambiguity. 
 
9 Everyone expected to respond on calls or with the other colleagues, rather than reacting to the situations. 
 
Example: 
Wrong way: I do not know about it. 
Expected way: Let me check and update you it. 
 
10 Always have the agreements agreed or acknowledged on an email. Do not have agreements on chat. Even if you 
are doing it on chat, make sure you send an email so as to use it as reference in the future. 
 
11 Update Valid Status on the online tools. 
 
Example: 
When using business skype, please reflect the correct status. When you are away from desk use the status like 
“Away” or “Be right Back”. Rather than leave it as “Available” and not responding to the team. 
 
12 Plan your vacation and share it as soon as you know about it. You can always change it at a later time based on 
need. Help the team to plan your time better. 
Keep the tools updated about your leave plans well in advance. (or) as soon as you realized the need for it. 
 
 